
#### Stimulus from Actors

Information is the medium bonding Machines and Humans. At its core, Information is the propagation of a message. There are differing levels of complexity in the **Information Hierarchy**, which can be categorized in 4 classes: Data, Information, Knowledge and Wisdom. There is a whole spectrum of Information: starting from **Data**, which is the **Machines**' prerogative and ending with **Wisdom**, which is **Humans**' prerogative, with ever increasing **Meaning in Context**, **Value in Decision** & **Algorithmicity** along the spectrum.

The most basic type is **Data**, which is a raw signal: unstructured, meaningless and worthless. In this form, Data is primarily handled by Machines. To create Information, Knowledge & Wisdom, Humans must combine Data with Meaning and Value. \
**Meaning** combined with Data allows to create **Information**. In other words, Information is the combination of Data with enough context (also called metadata) to be able to answer a question. **Value** of Information is not inherent to it, it is highly dependent of the **Context** in which the Information is considered: an Information is valuable if it allows a decision-maker to improve a **Decision**. If there is no impact on decision-making, Information has no value.

**Knowledge** is a **Combination** of Informations into an **Algorithm**. By looking at a table of Information about numerous events, a Human might be able to infer some patterns and understand an underlying structure: "if A and B occur together then C will occur". This infered pattern is called Knowledge, while could also be considered as an **Actionable Information**. In its core, Knowledge is created by combination of Informations and/or prior Knowledge. Knowledge is valuable if it is able to produce valuable Information reliably and hence help also Decision-making. Knowledge grows through Combination with other Knowledge. \
In the end, **Wisdom** is the accumulation of Knowledge. It can be considered as a Knowledge about "_What type of Knowledge is the most valuable_". In this form, Wisdom can only be handled by **Humans**. Currently, many authors are suggesting that society is in an age of deep transformation, during which there is also a **Transition** from an old Common-Sense to a new Wisdom.

In the current technological transformation, **Machines & Information** seem to be growing in **Symbiose**. One one side, Data, Information and Knowledge **Flows** are **Positive-Sum**, because when you give an Information, you don't loose it. On another side, Information **Technology** are exhibiting an **Exponential Performance** Growth (Moore's law) and an ever increasing **Ubiquity** through a Massive & Global Adoption. As a result, **Data & Information** are also featuring an **Exponential Quantity** Growth, also called Big Data.

With this sudden abundance of Information, we are witnessing the emergence of novel algorithms capable of **Automated Knowledge Generation from Data**, called **Machine Learning**. Machine Learning Algorithms are encroaching **Human Knowledge Workers Skills**. Thanks to this Exponential Growth, will Machines be able to perform every Human activity?  

In fact, **Humans** are contributing to this Information Expansion by providing **Meaning & Value**. Humans are more and more **Information Producers**. Data and Information is harvested by their personal devices and they are able to give on the fly additional Meaning and even Value to it. Additionally, Humans have more **Relationships & Interactions** through (and with) Machines thanks to **Telecommunications**.

One one hand, Information & Knowledge **Transfer to Humans** is constrained by **Time & Attention**. As a result, in this age of Information abundance, there is a **Competition for Attention** which is empowering Humans. On the other hand, Knowledge **Transfer to Machines** is constrained by Time and Attention of a Sofware Developer and its **Design Talent**. Recently, this transfer of Human Skills & Knowledge to Machines by talented designers is **Accelerating** thanks to **Machine Learning**. Simultaneously, Human **Physical Skills** are trivialized by **Automation, Robotics, 3D printing** & Additive manufacturing.

#### Stimulus from Organizations

I used Porter's **5 Competitive Forces** to analyze changes the Organizations' environment. Each firm is confronted to these 5 forces which are: Substitution, Rivalry, New Entrants, Powerful Buyers, Power Suppliers.

At the organizational level, the growth of Technology Performance & Usage and the consequent Information Expansion leads to the **Creation & Expansion of Networks** of all kinds. Such Networks introduce New **Market Dynamics**. First, Networks are **Accelerating** Information Speed and **Pace of Innovation** & Technological change globally. Second, Network Externalities are mainly **Positive Feedbacks**. To exploit this, Value propositions are increasingly Information & Network based. Those Positive feedback create **Tippy markets**: the winner takes all. Lower negative feedback in markets change their taxonomy: Long-lived oligopolies are replaced by **Temporal Monopolies**. And such Tippy markets & Temporal Monopolies are **increasing Rate of Disruption & Market Change**.

Networks create new Markets and **increase Substitution & Rivalry**. Networking are not only telecommunications: we witness the emergence of all kinds of **Virtual Networks and Platforms**. All Markets are **Two-sided Networks** and can be addressed by a **Platform**. Platforms are **pooling uncertainty**, which is a **cross-side positive externality**. Networks winner-take-all dynamic is **increasing Rivalry** among competitors to take on new emerging markets. Platforms create **Substitutes by "Envelopment"**: they tend to expand their services to retain their user base. Platforms inherently create subsidized or **Free products** that increase the power of Substitution.

Networks reshape existing Markets by welcoming **new entrants** and **weakening powerful buyers & suppliers**. Platforms & Technological Innovation increase Threat of Entry by **small players**. Platforms exhibit same-side negative externality: **increased competition** weakens powerful suppliers & buyers. Platforms strengthen small players and weak consumers & buyers by providing **access to market**. In the end, Platforms seem to be **economically more efficient** than integrated companies.

In other words, we enter an era of Platforms aggregating with them huge ecosystems of small players. If you are a big player, enjoying a powerful buyer or supplier situation, you might soon be confronted to the competition of a platform aggregating small players. If you are a small player, you may now face an increased competition from all over the world through these platforms.

#### Response of Organizations

I used Treacy's **Value Disciplines** to analyze the various Organizational response proposed by the authors: **Product Leadership**, **Customer Intimacy**, **Operational Excellence**. It has to be noted that Digitalization is abolishing former constraints on Strategy: digital players are now able to outperform you on all three Value Disciplines. The goal is not anymore to differentiate yourself by focusing on one Value Discipline, but rather to be able to compete on all three.

First step is to **Assess** your organizational value in this Information abundant environnment. Reevaluate your assets to find **information-based assets** that **complement** your existing assets. Identify activities to **Create Information Value**, such as **Building connections** to your **user base**. Then, Choose a way to **Capture Information Value**. Finally, analyze your **Business Model**: what kind of **Rights over your assets** do you sell?

The overarching goal is to Aim for **zero marginal costs**. Mutate your business model towards a low marginal costs one **to outperform** others. Ultimately, you can exploit **financial pressure to trigger change** by divesting & reinvesting.

Operationally, you need to **update** the organization's **information processing**. Rebuild business around an **IT backbone of Digital platforms**. **Centralize IT** & Information management **to Decentralize Information** exploitation by Employees. Integrate **data & algorithms** in a **centralized** Digital platform. Gather enough **IT skills** to build your **technical capability**. Fight **Technical Debt** to keep **Technical Agility**. Finally, foster an **Agile Culture** to adapt to these changes.

\bigskip

Organize to compete on **Product Leadership** by focusing on **Speed & Innovation**. Build assets for product leadership: **Digital Platform** & **Access to Infrastructure**. **Experiment** in real-world conditions with real-time data on a Digital platform. **Disrupt yourself** rather than being disrupted by your competitors. **Regulation & IP** can't protect you from Disruption, but may temporary **increase value** of Information-based assets. **Scale Up** & Down quickly through **IT Renting, Staff on-demand** & Partnerships. Establish **small & independent units** to increase focus & accelerate decision-making.

Organize to compete on **Customer Intimacy** by focusing on **Adaptation & Customization**. Build Assets for customer intimacy: **Sales infrastructure, Brand, Customer knowledge**. Adopt **Value-based pricing**. **Sell Experience** goods by letting the customer having a taste. Manage Customer Loyalty & Lock-in with **switching costs**. Evolve your value proposition **from product to service to partnership**. Profit from you user base and complement your offer by getting into the the Search-Broker business.

Organize to compete on **Optimization & Operational Excellence** by focusing on **Optimization & Price-performance ratio**. Build assets for Operational Excellence: **Partnership network & Algorithms**. **Automate Tasks** with algorithms & **Enhance Employees** with interfaces. Gather **Operational Data** by measuring everything. Reduce fixed costs by **virtualizing Business** and using **Staff on demand**. Complement your product by nurturing an Ecosystem & **partnering** beyond Supply chain management.

#### Response of Actors

First, Encourage Better information processing from humans, by fostering 8 key behaviours:

- **Listening**: Communication is now widespread and the ability to listen to is one of the most overlooked skills in modern organizations. 2-way communication now prevails over 1-way broadcast. Yet many people have poor listening skills.
- **Learning & Experimenting**: The ability to learn and experiment has been stiffled in many organizations in order to avoid unnecessary waste. As a result, failure of an experiment is often seen as a bad thing. Yet, it is now possible to design cheap experiments to learn. Most people don't feel safe enough in their organizations to propose such experiments.
- **Agility**: Due to increase pace of innovation, even the most detailed planning become obsolete quickly, as the environment moves quickly. Yet, in many organizations, once a decision has been made, it's written in stone. Whereas iterative strategy & real-time evaluation and reconfiguration should prevail over the false impression of control provided by a long-term planning.
- **Open mindedness**: Many organizations have emphasized the power of experts and risk management. However, this tends to naturally increase refusal of operations' changes and of new ideas. A quickly changing environment requires having people, while still having some expertise, which are accepting change & are able to make powerful cognitive associations.
- **Connectedness**: Since the introduction of email, many organizations are overwhelmed by "too much" Information. Yet, it is not too much, it is only poorly managed. There is a strong need to increase usage of social networking technologies to accelerate information flows and to help sorting through the overflow more easily.
- **Autonomy**: It is the complementary behavior of Agility. To improve Speed of Decision-making, organizations require now people able to take complex decisions based on the Information they have at hand. Workforces without a culture of autonomy are particularly vulnerable, as they are less and less valuable compared to the progressing automation technologies.
- **Rationality**: Many people think we are behaving rationally, while our cognitive biases have tremendous effect on our decisions. This effect is even more pronounced for managers which tend to rely on their intuition. Overcoming these cognitive biases might necessitate trainings on Data-based Decision-making, which leads to better decisions. Rationality is strongly related to Listening and Open mindedness skills, in order to be able to listen to differing point of views when a complex decision is made.
- **Engagement**: Environment is key to motivation. People share more and feel more engaged with their colleagues when they are in contact with other engaged People.

Finally, Key Leadership behavior need to be revamped guiding instead of controlling:

- **Strong & Up-to-date Leadership** is mandatory: Many managers lack the technical skills to understand the on-going technological revolution and the soft skills to properly accompany their staff through the transformation challenges which awaits them. Retraining them and hiring new staff to bring some fresh air is today an imperative.
- **Envisioning** instead of planning: As said earlier, every planning becomes obsolete quickly. However a long-term vision is still necessary to ensure that everyday decisions are aiming at the same target. This long-term vision requires special skills and personalities to build.
- **Unlocking investment** decision: Many transformation efforts fail because investment is poorly managed or even not available. Leaders should unlock slack resources to get new projects going.
- **Letting structure emerge** from value & experiment: By encouraging Learning & Autonomy behaviours among their employees, Leaders have the opportunity of gaining time and sparing transformation efforts by letting them decide what is the optimal structure to operate. This implies having the ability to challenge benevolently the status quo if a sub-optimal structure is chosen.
